# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

In console.rb, where we use Property.new. This calls the initialize method in property.rb.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

In properties.sql

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

The lines that contain the methods .save, .all, .delete, .find and .find_by_address.

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

Because the id is assigned automatically as each record is created in the database, because we have set id as a primary key in properties.sql

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

In line 32 of property.rb, by assigning it to the value of "id" in the first (only) hash in the array that the sql script returns. The sql script returns this because we add the statement "RETURNING id" at the end

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

Otherwise Property.new would return an error because the initialize method would be looking for an argument to assign to @id, and there wouldn't be one because the data from that object hadn't been inserted into the database yet.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

Some methods are called on individual objects eg saving them, updating them or deleting them individually, so they are created as instance methods and are called on the name of the individal object. The find methods, the .all method and the delete_all method have to work on all instances in the class in order to work, so they have to be class methods and be called on the name of the class.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

It is an array containing a hash or hashes. In the save method, only a single hash containing only the id key/value pair is returned in the array, so we access the value of "id" via index 0 of the array inside one set of square brackets and then the key "id" inside another set.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

To prevent hackers from entering sql code in their inputs which could alter or access the database contents.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

The .find method takes in an integer which matches the id of the database row you want it to return.

The .find_by_address method takes in a string which matches the contents of the address column in the database row you want it to return.

Q11. What are their return values?

First they check whether there is anything in the returned array, and if not, they return nil. Otherwise they return an instance of the Property class which contains the same data as the first database row found by the SELECT statement. 
